<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xt="http://ns.inria.org/xtiger" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge,chrome=1" />

    <title>The "choice" plugin</title>

    <xt:head version="1.1" templateVersion="1.0" label="Demo">
    </xt:head>

    <!-- template enrichment : extracts and generates xt:attribute and xt:use sample code -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../axel/templates/shared/demo.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../../axel/3rd-part/jquery/js/jquery-1.7.1.min.js">//</script>
    <script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8" src="../../../axel/templates/shared/demo.js"></script>

    <style type="text/css">
      select.axel-choice-placeholder, option.axel-choice-placeholder {
        font-style: italic !important;
      }
      select.axel-choice > option {
        font-style: normal;
      }
      select.district {
        height: 300px;
        vertical-align:top;
      }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>The <samp>"choice"</samp> plugin</h1>

    <p>The <code>"choice"</code> plugin edits a choice in a list of choices presented as a popup menu with a native HTML <code>select/option</code> control. It is similar to the <code>"select"</code> plugin however it is best fitted for form-based document.</p>

    <h2>Attributes</h2>

    <p>The plugin requires specific attributes on the XTiger XML <code>xt:use</code> or <code>xt:attribute</code> host element :</p>
      
    <ul class="attributes">
      <li><var>values</var> (<code>list of tokens</code>) : list the values that will be linearized in the XML output, these will also be used as the labels in the popup menu unless an optional <var>i18n</var> attribute is defined</li>
      <li><var>i18n</var> (<code>list of tokens</code>) : defines the labels to display for the values in the popup menu, both lists are enumerated in the same order</li>
      <li><var>default</var> (<code>token</code>) : the default selection as it will appear in the label</li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>The <var>values</var> and <var>i18n</var> lists are white space separated list of tokens, you can include a white space inside a token by adding an anti-slash in front of it.</p>

    <p>Note that the <var>default</var> attribute is only valid when using the plugin with an <code>xt:attribute</code> XTiger XML host element. If you use it with an <code>xt:use</code> host, then you must declare the default selection inside the text content of the element.</p>

    <h2>Parameters</h2>

    <ul class="parameters">
      <li><var>placeholder</var> (string) : if you do not define a default selection the placeholder sets the message to display as the first selected option, if the user does not change it it will be serialized as the empty string (or not serialized at all if <var>xvalue</var> is defined)</li>
      <li><var>multiple</var> (yes | <b>no</b>) : multiple choices allowed when set to yes</li>
      <li><var>xvalue</var> (tag name) : drives XML serialization of the content, default value means the selected option(s) is(are) exported as plain text (comma separated list of values), if it contains any other string the string will be used to generate an element in the target content model for each option with its text content set to the value</li>
      <li><var>typehead</var> (yes|<b>no</b>) : when set to yes the list of options can be filtered with keyboard shortcuts</li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>The <var>multiple</var> and <var>typeahead</var> parameters works only in conjunction with a combo box filter such as "select2".</p>

    <h2>Basic usage</h2>

    <h3>As an attribute</h3>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>
        I prefer <xt:attribute types="choice" name="season" default="Autumn" values="Winter Spring Summer Autumn"/>
        in <xt:attribute types="choice" name="continent" default="Europe" values="Africa America Europe Oceania" option="unset"/>.
      </p>
    </div>

    <h3>As an element (and with i18n labels)</h3>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>
        I prefer to pay with <xt:use types="choice" label="Currency" values="EUR USD CHF" i18n="Euro Dollars Swiss-franc">USD</xt:use>.
      </p>
    </div>
    
    <h2>Multiple Choices</h2>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>
        I have visited <xt:use types="choice" label="Districts1" param="multiple=yes;class=district;placeholder=Choose..."
        values="AG AI AR BE BL BS FR GE GL GR JU LU NE NW OW SG SH SZ SO TI TG UR VS VD ZG ZH"
        i18n="Argovie Appenzell\ Intérieur Appenzell\ Extérieur Berne Bâle-Campagne Bâle-Ville Fribourg Genève Glaris Grisons Jura Lucerne Neuchâtel Nidwald Obwald Saint-Gall Schaffhouse Schwytz Soleure Tessin Thurgovie Uri Valais Vaud Zoug Zurich"
        ></xt:use> in Switzerland.
      </p>
    </div>

    <p>With serialization into different XML elements</p>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>
        I would like to visit <xt:use types="choice" label="Districts2" param="class=district;multiple=yes;xvalue=District;placeholder=Choose..."
        values="AG AI AR BE BL BS FR GE GL GR JU LU NE NW OW SG SH SZ SO TI TG UR VS VD ZG ZH"
        i18n="Argovie Appenzell\ Intérieur Appenzell\ Extérieur Berne Bâle-Campagne Bâle-Ville Fribourg Genève Glaris Grisons Jura Lucerne Neuchâtel Nidwald Obwald Saint-Gall Schaffhouse Schwytz Soleure Tessin Thurgovie Uri Valais Vaud Zoug Zurich"
        ></xt:use> in Switzerland.
      </p>
    </div>
    
    <h2>Special usage</h2>
    
    <h3>Without default selection</h3>
    
    <p>In that case the default selection (or empty selection) will be set to the empty string, which will be serialized as the empy string if the user does not change it.</p>
    
    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>
        Please select a currency <xt:use types="choice" label="CurrencyOrNot" values="EUR USD CHF" i18n="Euro Dollars Swiss-franc"/>
      </p>
    </div>

    <p>You can change the empty selection prompt by setting the <code>placeholder</code> parameter to whatever string you want to display in that case.</p>
    
    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>
        Please select a currency <xt:use types="choice" label="CurrencyOrNot" values="EUR USD CHF" i18n="Euro Dollars Swiss-franc" param="placeholder=choose..."/>
      </p>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
