<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xt="http://ns.inria.org/xtiger" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge,chrome=1" />

  <title>The 'regexp' binding</title>

  <xt:head version="1.1" templateVersion="1.0" label="Demo">
  </xt:head>
  
  <style type="text/css">
    .af-error {
      display: none;
      color: red;
    }
    input:invalid, input:focus:invalid {
      color: #b94a48;
      border-color: #ee5f5b;
      box-shadow: 0 0 6px #ee5f5b;
    }
    label.invalid {
      color: red;
    }
    label.valid {
      color: green;
    }
  </style>

  <!-- template enrichment : extracts and generates xt:attribute and xt:use sample code -->
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../axel/templates/shared/demo.css" />
</head>
<body>

  <h1>The 'regexp' binding</h1>

  <p>The <code>"regexp"</code> binding validates a text entry field against a regular expression. It can then display an error feedback message already defined somewhere in the DOM tree if the field value is invalid. It can also dynamically set a class on a target label. You can define a class for a valid content and a class for an invalid content. Note that the binding does not trigger itself when loading XML data into the editor, you must call explicitely <code>$axel.binding.validate</code> for that purpose (for instance on success in the command that loads the XML date).</p>

  <h2>Declaration</h2>

  <p>The binding host may be any ancestor of the XTiger XML field to control. The bound field must be unique in its ancestor's scope.</p>

  <h3>Host parameters</h3>

  <ul class="attributes">
    <li><var>data-binding</var> (<code>regexp</code>)</li>
    <li><var>data-variable</var> (<code><i>name</i></code>) : variable name given to the bound tree</li>
    <li><var>data-regexp</var> (<code><i>regexp</i></code>) : regular expression to be used for validation</li>
    <li><var>data-error-scope</var> (<code><i>CSS selector</i></code>) : optional CSS selector to find the closes ancestor to use to define a scope for locating the error message and/or the label to highlight</li>
    <li><var>data-pattern</var> (<code>undefined</code>) : optional pattern string (HTML5 form attribute) that will be set as a <i>pattern</i> attribute on all the <code>input</code> element(s) in scope of the binding's host</li>
    <li><var>data-valid-class</var> (<code><i>CSS class name</i></code>) : optional class to set on the label when the bound tree is valid</li>
    <li><var>data-invalid-class</var> (<code><i>CSS class name</i></code>) : optional class to set on the label when the bound tree is invalid</li>    
    <li><var>data-label-selector</var> (<code><i>CSS selector</i></code>) : optional CSS selector to identify the label to highlight using <i>data-valid-class</i> or <i>data-invalid-class</i>, scoped to <i>data-error-scope</i> or to the whole document otherwise</li>
    <li><var>data-validation</var> (<code><b>on</b> | off</code>) : set it to <i>off</i> if you do not want invalid state to be blocking when saving the editor's content using a save command that calls <code>$axel.binding.validate</code> before saving</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Error feedback message</h3>
  
  <p>Place a <code>data-regexp-error="<i>name</i>"</code> instruction on the HTML element to use as an error feedback message, where <i>name</i> is the binding variable name. Use a CSS rule to initially hide the validation feedback element.</p>
  
  <p>You can scope the error feedback message using the <var>data-error-scope</var> parameter on the binding host element.</p>
  
  <h3>Plugin field compatibility</h3>
  
  <p>This binding is compatible with the <code>input</code> plugin with a <code>text</code> type as long as you set an <code>event</code> filer on it.</p>

  <h2>Sample usage with error feedback message with a single (not repeated) field</h2>

  <p>With a regexp to validate an email address (or the empty email address) :</p>
  
  <div class="source"><pre>
&lt;div data-regexp="^\s*$|^\w([-.]?\w)+@\w([-.]?\w)+\.[a-zA-Z]{2,6}$" data-variable="mail" data-binding="regexp" data-error-scope=".demo">
  &lt;label for="Courriel">Courriel&lt;/label>
  &lt;xt:use param="filter=event;type=text;id=Courriel" label="Email" types="input"/>
  &lt;p class="af-error" data-regexp-error="mail">Invalid email address&lt;/p>
&lt;/div>
  </pre></div>

  <div class="demo">
    <div data-regexp="^\s*$|^\w([-.]?\w)+@\w([-.]?\w)+\.[a-zA-Z]{2,6}$" data-variable="mail" data-binding="regexp" data-error-scope=".demo">
      <label for="Courriel">Courriel : </label>
      <xt:use param="filter=event;type=text;id=Courriel" label="Email" types="input"/>
      <p class="af-error" data-regexp-error="mail">Invalid email address</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <h2>Sample usage with class feedback on label with a single (not repeated) field</h2>

  <p>With a regexp to show an email address state (valid or invalid); note that you need to configure CSS to show the appropriate feedback :</p>
  
  <div class="source"><pre>
&lt;div data-regexp="^\w([-.]?\w)+@\w([-.]?\w)+\.[a-zA-Z]{2,6}$" data-variable="mail" data-binding="regexp" data-valid-class="valid" data-error-scope=".demo" data-label-selector="label">
  &lt;label for="Courriel">Courriel&lt;/label>
  &lt;xt:use param="filter=event;type=text" label="Email" types="input"/>
  &lt;p class="af-error" data-regexp-error="mail">Invalid email address&lt;/p>
&lt;/div>
  </pre></div>

  <div class="demo">
    <div data-regexp="^\w([-.]?\w)+@\w([-.]?\w)+\.[a-zA-Z]{2,6}$" data-variable="mail" data-binding="regexp"
      data-valid-class="valid" data-invalid-class="invalid" data-error-scope=".demo"
      data-label-selector="label"
      >
      <label>Courriel : </label>
      <xt:use param="filter=event;type=text" label="Email" types="input"/>
    </div>
  </div>
  
  <h2>Sample usage with a repeated field</h2>
  
  <p>In that case you may use the <var>data-error-scope</var> to display validation feedback next to the input field.</p>
  
  <div class="source"><pre>
&lt;xt:repeat minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="*" label="Records">
  &lt;div class="record">
    &lt;xt:menu-marker/>
    &lt;span data-regexp="^\d{1,3}$" data-variable="age" data-binding="regexp" data-error-scope=".record">
      &lt;label for="Age">Age : &lt;/label>
      &lt;xt:use param="filter=event;type=text;id=Age" label="Age" types="input"/>
    &lt;/span>
    &lt;span class="af-error" data-regexp-error="age">Invalid age enter a number&lt;/span>
  &lt;/div>
&lt;/xt:repeat>
  </pre></div>

  <div class="demo">
    <xt:repeat minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="*" label="Records">
      <div class="record">
        <xt:menu-marker/>
        <span data-regexp="^\d{1,3}$" data-variable="age" data-binding="regexp" data-error-scope=".record">
          <label for="Age">Age : </label>
          <xt:use param="filter=event;type=text;id=Age" label="Age" types="input"/>
        </span>
        <span class="af-error" data-regexp-error="age">Invalid age enter a number</span>
      </div>
    </xt:repeat>
  </div>
  
  <h2>Sample usage with HTML5 validation</h2>
  
  <p>The binding's <code>data-pattern</code> attribute will be converted to an HTML5 <code>pattern</code> attribute. Do not forget to style the input using the <code>:invalid</code> pseudo-selector to give feedback.</p>
  
  <div class="demo">
    <xt:repeat minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="*" label="Prices">
      <div class="record">
        <xt:menu-marker/>
        <span data-binding="regexp" data-variable="price"  data-regexp="^\s*\d*\s*$" data-pattern="[0-9]*" data-error-scope=".record">
          <label for="Price">Enter a price :</label> 
          <xt:use param="filter=event;type=text;id=Price" label="Price" types="input"/>
        </span>
        <span class="af-error" data-regexp-error="price">Invalid price enter a number</span>
      </div>
    </xt:repeat>
  </div>  
    
</body>
</html>
